
TAHCHIN MORGH RECIPE (CRISPY PERSIAN SAFFRON RICE CAKE)

INGREDIENTS
2 cups basmati rice
2 egg yolks
1/3 cup dried barberries
1 cup plain thick yogurt (Strained Yogurt)
1 tablespoon rose water (optional)
2 tablespoons butter
1/3 cup oil, plus more for greasing the pans
1/4 teaspoon ground saffron threads
1/2 teaspoon turmeric
Salt and pepper as needed
1 small cinnamon stick (optional)
1 boneless chicken breast
1 large onion
2 tablespoon slivered almonds(optional)
2 tablespoon slivered pistachios(optional)
INSTRUCTIONS
Step 1

Rinse rice until the water is clear. Soak rice in a large bowl of water. Add 1 tablespoon salt and stir to dissolve. Let it sit for 2 hours.

Step 2

Soak slivered pistachios and almonds in cold water for 30 minutes, drain, and set aside.

Step 3

Using a mortar and pestle, grind down the saffron threads. Sprinkle ground saffron on 4 tablespoons of boiling water and set aside for at least 10-15 minutes.

Step 4

Rinse the barberries with cold water to remove any dirt or debris. Drain, and set aside. Put 2 tablespoons of butter or vegetable oil in a small frying pan on medium heat. Add barberries to the pan and saute for 1 or 2 minutes. You can add a teaspoon of brewed saffron (liquid saffron) or rose water to the barberries to make them more fragrant. Set them aside. Keep an eye on barberries as they will burn easily.

Step 5

Next, transfer drained slivered almonds and pistachios to the pan and fry them with butter for a few minutes until they become fragrant.

Step 6

Season chicken pieces with salt, turmeric, and black pepper and place in a pot. Add sliced onion and a small cinnamon stick. Add water to cover the chicken pieces and bring to a boil. Skim off any foam, reduce heat, and simmer over low heat until chicken pieces are fork-tender and fully cooked. Shred cooked chicken pieces with a fork and set aside. Heat some oil or butter in a frying pan and saute the shredded chicken with 1-2 tablespoons of bloomed saffron for a few minutes to enhance the flavor.

Step 7

Drain the soaked rice. Add fresh water into a pot. For every cup of rice add two cups of water. Place the pot on the stove over medium-high heat and bring to a boil. Add 1 tablespoon of salt to the boiling water.

Step 8

Add drained rice to the pot of boiling water and give a quick stir. The rice is done after 8-10 minutes when it begins to rise to the top and the water comes back to a boil. Check the rice is cooked by trying a grain.

Step 9

Break one grain in half. Rice should be soft on the outside but slightly hard in the middle. Pour rice into the colander to drain; then set aside.

Step 10

In a bowl, mix together the yogurt, egg yolks, 1/3 cup oil, rose water, and bloomed saffron. Add salt and black pepper to taste. Add semi-cooked and drained rice to the yogurt mixture and stir it well.

Step 11

Add 3 tablespoons of oil to the rice cooker or a non-stick pot. The pot should be non-stick so that you can flip the Tahchin easily without having to worry about the crust sticking to the bottom. Pour the saffron rice mixture into the pot. Flatten the first layer with a spoon, layer chicken pieces, sprinkle with half of the sauteed barberries, and then cover the entire surface with the remaining rice mixture. Flatten the rice and press it with the back of a spoon.

Step 12

Place the pot on medium-high heat directly on the stovetop. Cover the lid with a clean dishcloth and put it on the pot. Cook over medium heat until the rice begins to steam. Then lower the heat and cook for about 40-45 minutes or until the crust forms.

Step 13

When the rice is cooked and the crust is golden and crispy, turn off the heat and let it sit for 5 minutes. Find a serving platter or dish large enough to hold the Tahchin. Cover the pot with the platter, hold them together firmly, and invert Tahchin onto your platter. Serve Tahchin with sauteed barberries, slivered pistachios, and almonds on top.

Reference:https://yummynotes.net/tahchin-recipe/